README.md, before:

# KingDB #
A hierarchical, NoSQL, in-memory data store with a RESTful API.

## What is a hierarchical data store? ##
A hierarchical data store is a service which facilitates CRUD actions on data organized in predefined structures with parent-child relationships.

An example domain may define these relationships:

* Continents have countries
* Countries may have states (or subdivisions)
* States have cities

The hierarchy is then defined as: `continents` -> `countries` -> `states` -> `cities`

A hierarchical data store enforces all elements to have a parent of the predefined type. In our example domain described above, countries cannot exist without a parent continent, and cities cannot be created as direct children of a country.

A hierarchical data store makes it simple to query the stored entities and their relationships. To get a country's properties along with the states of that country and the cities in those states, an application issues a query with the `countries` label, the country's ID and the `depth` parameter set to 2.

## Why use a hierarchical data store? ##
Some applications can represent their data model as a hierarchy of entities. A specialized data store can take advantage of optimized data structures, simplify the query model and reduce application development time and complexity.

#### How does it compare against a relational database? ####
Relational database, such as MySQL or PostgreSQL, can be slow since joins are computed at query time. Moreover, they often require the application to make a trade-off between making multiple round trips or repeating the joinned data when a query involves many tables. A hierarchical database can provide the data of an entire hierarchy with a single request.

#### How does it compare against a graph database? ####
Graph databases, such as Neo4J or OrientDB, store hard-links between entities and don't have to compute joins at query time. Yet, graph databases provide too much flexibility. In a graph database, any vertex can be linked to any other vertex of any type and vertices can be created even without a parent vertex to attach to. A hierarchical data store enforces every newly created entity to have a parent. Top level entities are created under the "root" entity. 

Applications querying a graph databases must construct a query string. These graph queries, in essence, redundantly redeclare the realtionships of the elements in the hierarchy. There is a neglible but existent step for the graph databases to parse this query on every request. A hierarchical data store can leverage structures such as a doubly-linked list to know the antecessor and supercessor of a level.

#### How does it compare against a key-value store? ####
Key-Value stores, such as Redis or Riak KV, provide the fastest reads when all data is stored as a JSON blob, but frequently modifying a deeply nested value is inneficient. The application must pull the entire hierarchy from the root to the leaves, deserialize it, make changes, serialize it, and update the data store.

#### How does it compare against a document store? ####
Document stores, such as MongoDB or Elasticsearch, need to make multiple round trips to get the child entities. The alternative is to store all the data into a single, highly-nested document, which is inneficient to update, and so large that it can be difficult to work with.

## KingDB Features ##
- Queries can return any entity in any of the hierarchy levels.
- Queries can specify the depth level of child entities to reduce the amount of data returned.
- Entities may have key-value properties. (Currently keys and values must be strings)
- Each entity can be updated independently of it's parent or child entities.
- In memory storage provides speedy reads and writes atomically.
- A RESTful HTTP interface combines the application relational logic and the data store. When there is no additional domain logic, putting KingDB behind an API Gateway makes writing REST APIs unnecessary. As a consequence, deployments are simpler and the number of servers is reduced.

## Setting up KingDB ##

#### Prerequisites ####
Go > 1.8

#### Compiling into a binary ####
```
go get bitbucket.org/enticusa/kingdb
cd $GOPATH/bitbucket.org/enticusa/kingdb
go install
```

#### Running the database ####
```
$GOPATH/bin/kingdb
```

#### CLI Options ###
```
  -addr string
        The binding address (default ":6789")
```

## REST API ##

#### Sample Usage ####
Below are sample CRUD actions for a registry of `continents` -> `countries` -> `states` -> `cities`.
```
# Create the "locations" schema
POST localhost:6789/locations
["continents", "countries", "states", "cities"]

# Review the "locations" schema we just created
GET localhost:6789/locations

# Create a "continent" under the "root"
POST localhost:6789/locations/continents/north_america?parent=root
{"name": "North America"}

# Create a "country"
POST localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa?parent=north_america
{"name": "United States of America", "capital": "Washington, DC", "code": "usa"}

# Create a "state"
POST localhost:6789/locations/states/ny?parent=usa
{"name": "New York", "abbr": "NY"}

# Create another "state"
POST localhost:6789/locations/states/ca?parent=usa
{"name": "California", "abbr": "CA"}

# Create a "city"
POST localhost:6789/locations/cities/nyc?parent=ny
{"name": "New York City"}

# Update a "city"
PUT localhost:6789/locations/cities/nyc
{"name": "New York City", "population_in_millions": "8.491"}

# Inspecting a "country" with all the "states" and "cities"
GET localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa?depth=2

# Inspecting a "country" only without any "states"
GET localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa?depth=0

# Delete a "country". All child "states" and "cities" are deleted as well
DELETE localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa

# Delete the "locations" schema
DELETE localhost:6789/locations
```

Commit message:

Updated README and added a postman collection

README.md, after:

# KingDB #
A hierarchical, NoSQL, in-memory data store with a RESTful API.

## What is a hierarchical data store? ##
A hierarchical data store is a service which facilitates CRUD actions on data organized in predefined structures with parent-child relationships.

An example domain may define these relationships:

* Continents have countries
* Countries may have states (or subdivisions)
* States have cities

The hierarchy is then defined as: `continents` -> `countries` -> `states` -> `cities`

A hierarchical data store enforces all elements to have a parent of the predefined type. In our example domain described above, countries cannot exist without a parent continent, and cities cannot be created as direct children of a country.

A hierarchical data store makes it simple to query the stored entities and their relationships. To get a country's properties along with the states of that country and the cities in those states, an application issues a query with the `countries` label, the country's ID and the `depth` parameter set to 2.

## Why use a hierarchical data store? ##
Some applications can represent their data model as a hierarchy of entities. A specialized data store can take advantage of optimized data structures, simplify the query model and reduce application development time and complexity.

#### How does it compare against a relational database? ####
Relational database, such as MySQL or PostgreSQL, can be slow since joins are computed at query time. Moreover, they often require the application to make a trade-off between making multiple round trips or repeating the joinned data when a query involves many tables. A hierarchical database can provide the data of an entire hierarchy with a single request.

#### How does it compare against a graph database? ####
Graph databases, such as Neo4J or OrientDB, store hard-links between entities and don't have to compute joins at query time. Yet, graph databases provide too much flexibility. In a graph database, any vertex can be linked to any other vertex of any type and vertices can be created even without a parent vertex to attach to. A hierarchical data store enforces every newly created entity to have a parent. Top level entities are created under the "root" entity. 

Applications querying a graph databases must construct a query string. These graph queries, in essence, redundantly redeclare the realtionships of the elements in the hierarchy. There is a neglible but existent step for the graph databases to parse this query on every request. A hierarchical data store can leverage structures such as a doubly-linked list to know the antecessor and supercessor of a level.

#### How does it compare against a key-value store? ####
Key-Value stores, such as Redis or Riak KV, provide the fastest reads when all data is stored as a JSON blob, but frequently modifying a deeply nested value is inneficient. The application must pull the entire hierarchy from the root to the leaves, deserialize it, make changes, serialize it, and update the data store.

#### How does it compare against a document store? ####
Document stores, such as MongoDB or Elasticsearch, need to make multiple round trips to get the child entities. The alternative is to store all the data into a single, highly-nested document, which is inneficient to update, and so large that it can be difficult to work with.

## KingDB Features ##
- Queries can return any entity in any of the hierarchy levels.
- Queries can specify the depth level of child entities to reduce the amount of data returned.
- Entities may have key-value properties. (Currently keys and values must be strings)
- Each entity can be updated independently of it's parent or child entities.
- In memory storage provides speedy reads and writes atomically.
- A RESTful HTTP interface combines the application relational logic and the data store. When there is no additional domain logic, putting KingDB behind an API Gateway makes writing REST APIs unnecessary. As a consequence, deployments are simpler and the number of servers is reduced.

## Setting up KingDB ##

#### Prerequisites ####
Go > 1.8

#### Compiling into a binary ####
```
go get bitbucket.org/enticusa/kingdb
cd $GOPATH/bitbucket.org/enticusa/kingdb
go install
```

#### Running the database ####
```
$GOPATH/bin/kingdb
```

#### CLI Options ###
```
  -addr string
        The binding address (default ":6789")
```

## REST API ##

#### Sample Usage ####
Below are sample REST CRUD actions for a registry of `continents` -> `countries` -> `states` -> `cities`. These actions are available as a [Postman collection](demo_postman_collection.json).
```
# Create the "locations" schema
POST localhost:6789/locations
["continents", "countries", "states", "cities"]

# Read the "locations" schema we just created
GET localhost:6789/locations

# Create a "continent" under the "root"
POST localhost:6789/locations/continents/north_america?parent=root
{"name": "North America"}

# Create a "country"
POST localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa?parent=north_america
{"name": "United States of America", "capital": "Washington, DC", "code": "usa"}

# Create a "state"
POST localhost:6789/locations/states/ny?parent=usa
{"name": "New York", "abbr": "NY"}

# Create another "state"
POST localhost:6789/locations/states/ca?parent=usa
{"name": "California", "abbr": "CA"}

# Create a "city"
POST localhost:6789/locations/cities/nyc?parent=ny
{"name": "New York City"}

# Update a "city"
PUT localhost:6789/locations/cities/nyc
{"name": "New York City", "population_in_millions": "8.491"}

# Read "country", with all the "states" and "cities"
GET localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa?depth=2

# Read "country", without any "states"
GET localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa?depth=0

# Read the entire hierarchy root
GET localhost:6789/locations/root/root?depth=4

# Delete a "country". All child "states" and "cities" are deleted as well
DELETE localhost:6789/locations/countries/usa

# Delete the "locations" schema
DELETE localhost:6789/locations
```
